Justice Party National Steering Committee

The National Steering Committee of the Justice Party of the United States of America shall:

Section 1. Serve as the chief executive authority of the Party and be responsible for the conduct of its affairs subject to this Charter.  Until the National Committee is created, the  National Steering Committee shall operate under the provisions adopted herein; thereafter the National Steering Committee shall operate subject to guidelines promulgated by the National Committee and, eventually, under the authority of the National Convention. 


(a) After the first meeting of the National Committee, National Steering Committee members shall be elected by and serve at the pleasure of the members of the Justice Party National Committee; the size, composition and term of office for the National Steering Committee shall be determined by the Justice Party National Committee either through its own deliberation or through the acceptance of recommendations of the initial National Steering Committee.

(b) Until such time as the National Committee is formed, each National Steering Committee member shall serve to the advantage of the Party’s mission and her/his fellow members.  As the sole executive body of the Justice Party, the current National Steering Committee members are expected to play an active role in the Party’s business and take on duties in support of that business. 

(c) Members of the National Steering Committee who miss more than three consecutive meetings without notifying the Co-Chairs can be removed from the committee by a two-thirds majority of the members participating in the following meeting. 

(d) National Steering Committee members can also be removed for cause according to the following procedure:
(i) Any National Steering Committee member may put the question of a vote to remove another member on the agenda by contacting either Co-Chair.
(ii) The member nominated for removal shall be informed of her/his status at least two days prior to the meeting scheduled to address this agenda item.
(iii) After discussion, the National Steering Committee members shall vote on removal with the outcome determined by a two-thirds majority vote.

(e) Vacancies created by resignation or removal of any member of the National Steering Committee may be filled by any member of the Justice Party provided that he or she is nominated by a member of the committee in good standing and elected by a two-thirds majority of the existing members.  

Section 2. Elect from among its members two Co-Chairs, a Treasurer and a Secretary. 

(a) The Co-Chairs shall be responsible for handling the day-to-day affairs of the Steering Committee, including but not limited to:
	(i) Calling and chairing meetings of the National Steering Committee,
	(ii) Creating the agenda for National Steering Committee meetings,
(iii) Coordinating the workflow of National Steering Committee members.    Prioritize tasks and shepherd projects through completion,
	(iv) Political outreach, 
(v) Coalition building,

(b) The Treasurer shall be responsible for 
(i) managing all financial matters of the Justice Party consistent with its fiscal policy and applicable U.S. law,  
(ii) presenting reports on the finances of the party at all official meetings,
(iii) submitting financial records of party operations to the Federal Elections Commission as required by law,  
(iv) filing legally required records for all funds collected, 
(v) disbursing and managing Party funds under the direction of the National Steering Committee and the National Committee. 

(c) The Secretary shall be responsible for 
(i) keeping a record of all National Steering Committee proceedings, 
(ii) serving as the point of contact for the state affiliates as well as the repository of all documents related to the formation and governance of state affiliates,
(iii) serving as the repository of all membership records.

(d) During the initial period in which the steering committee is the recognized executive authority of the Justice Party, either co-chair, or the treasurer, or the secretary of the national steering committee is authorized as the official signatory for legal and finance related matters.
  
Section 3. Meet via teleconference at least once per month or as the Co-Chairs determine necessary and in person as many times per year as is practical. Meetings shall be called by the Co-Chairs or by request of no fewer than one-half of the National Steering Committee members. The National Steering Committee shall keep a record of its proceedings, which shall be archived by the Secretary.  A quorum for such meetings is greater than one-half of the active National Steering Committee members.

Section 4. Govern the formation and development of state affiliates, serving as the adjudicating body in the event that conflicts arise within or among states, in accordance with the following provisions:

(a) No person, group or organization other than the Justice Party National Committee or Justice Party National Steering Committee may use or grant permission to use the name "Justice Party" or any confusingly similar designation. 

(b) The National Steering Committee shall charter state-level affiliate parties from any qualifying organization requesting such status in each state, territory and the District of Columbia (hereinafter, “state”). Organizations that wish to become state-level affiliate parties shall apply for such status on a standard petition form as adopted by the National Steering Committee. The petition shall be signed by no fewer than ten members of the Party residing in the appropriate state. Affiliate party status shall be granted only to those organizations which adopt the Statement of Principles and file a copy of their Constitution and/or Bylaws with the National Steering Committee’s Secretary.

(c) There shall be no more than one state-level affiliate party in any one state. Each state level affiliate party shall, in accordance with its own Bylaws and these Rules, determine who shall be its delegates to all regular Conventions. A state-level affiliate party may charter local and district parties within the state, which will entitle such entities to use the name “Justice Party.”

(d) No affiliate party shall endorse any candidate who is not a member of the Justice Party, or who is a member of another party, for public office in any partisan election except by the approval of the current National Steering Committee or of the National Committee.  No affiliate party shall take any action inconsistent with the Statement of Principles or these Rules.  Affiliate parties shall use their best efforts to resolve all disputes within and among their membership to avoid divisiveness and conflict, which does not serve the Justice Party’s broader public interest in any state.  Disputes between groups of Party members within one state which prevent the Party from accomplishing its mission may serve as grounds for revocation of the affiliate party’s status as described in section 6 of this rule.

(e) The autonomy of the affiliate and their local and district parties shall not be abridged by the National Committee, the National Steering Committee, or any other committee of the Party, except as provided by these rules.

(f) The 2012 National Steering Committee shall have the power to revoke the status of any affiliate party, for cause, by a vote of two-thirds of its members.  After the National Committee is created, this authority will shift to the National Committee. A motion to revoke the status of an affiliate party for cause must specify the nature of the cause for revocation. 

(g) The National Committee shall be responsible for drafting and putting in place a policy through which an appeal for reconsideration can be made by any state affiliate that has been subject to revocation.

Section 5.  Elect an Executive Committee consisting of three of its members, including its Chair or at least one of its Co-Chairs.  The Executive Committee has the power to make immediate decisions on behalf of the National Steering Committee in emergency situations or when a rapid response is required, and within the bounds of decisions already made by the National Steering Committee and higher bodies.  Its decisions will be reviewed and confirmed or overruled at the next National Steering Committee meeting.  The membership of the Executive Committee can be changed at any meeting of the National Steering Committee.