Amendments, Bylaws, and Rules

Section 1. This Charter may be amended by a vote of a three-fourths majority of all the delegates to the National Convention or by a three-fourths majority of the initial National Steering Committee. 

This Charter may also be amended by a vote of three-fourths of the entire membership of the Justice Party National Committee. At least thirty days written notice shall be given of any National Committee meeting at which action will be taken pursuant to this Section, and any proposed amendment shall be given to all members of the National Committee.

Section 2. These Bylaws of the Justice Party may be amended to provide for better governance of the affairs of the Party, by a two-thirds majority vote of:

(a) the National Convention, with thirty days notice, or

(b) the Justice Party National Committee, provided that thirty days written notice of any proposed Bylaw or amendment has been given to all the members of the National Committee, or

(c) the initial National Steering Committee, provided that as much notice as feasible be given to all the members of the National Steering Committee. 

Section 3. Each official body of the Justice Party created under the authority of this Charter shall adopt and conduct its affairs in accordance with written rules, which rules shall be consistent with this Charter, the Bylaws and other provisions adopted pursuant to authority of the Bylaws including resolutions or other actions of the National Convention. The initial Justice Party National Steering Committee shall maintain copies of all such rules and shall make them available upon request, until such time as a National Committee has been formed, at which point this responsibility shall pass to the National Committee.

Section 4. Each recognized state Justice Party shall adopt and conduct its affairs in accordance with written rules. Copies of such rules and of any changes or amendments thereto shall be filed with the Justice Party National Steering Committee within thirty days following adoption, until such time as a National Committee has been formed, at which point this responsibility shall pass to the National Committee.