Subject: Cascade of JP Values & Goals Revis(it)ed
 
Steering Committee, Values Committee, Fellow Platform Committee Members, and selected other Justice Party activists,
 
As the Steering Committee and Values Committee are in the process of considering the proposed JP values, I offer again my ideas about how to the core values and platform of the Justice Party can and should be integrated to form a coherent whole.  The draft statement of values proposed by the values committee offers:
 
Justice:  Behave with fairness and compassion, and be accountable for one’s actions;
Integrity:  Act with integrity, taking the high moral road and doing the right thing;
Respect:  Treat all people, including those with different views, philosophies, and circumstances, with respect;
Transparency:  Communicate honestly, thoroughly, and transparently;
Collaboration:  Seek solutions in the public interest through communication and cooperation;
Rationality:  Reach decisions consistent with facts and reason;
Effectiveness:  Work hard, and work efficiently by planning first, then acting;
Farsightedness:  Consider not only the immediate, but also the long term, consequences of our actions;
 
Human Rights:  Respect individual freedoms and human rights; and
Rule of Law:  Uphold the equal application of the rule of law.
Stewardship:  Protect natural resources through sustainable practices, leaving our communities and world safer and healthier for future generations;
 
I divide these into two sets. The top bunch are values that are, IMO, constituent of the overarching value of Justice. The bottom three are applications of Justice values to particular social fields.
 
I have taken the liberty of revising and extending these somewhat, particularly with regard to other fields to which Justice values can be applied (drawing heavily on extant Justice Party websites and documents) to yield the following, keeping in mind that this is a proposal and a draft, and has room to for expansion at each level and in each field (and I have even more specific sub-entries for some of these that, in the interests of parsimony, I’ve omitted from this particular cascade) :
 
 
JUSTICE

1.       Component Values of Justice: Do that which is right and fair.

1.1.    Fairness: Be impartial, even-handed, and open-minded; avoid prejudice and bias.

1.2.    Integrity: Stay true to your values, accountable for your actions, and admit your mistakes.

1.3.    Respect: Value each person…

1.4.    Compassion: Have empathy for others; help the oppressed and downtrodden; show mercy and forgiveness.

1.5.    Transparency: Communicate honestly, openly, and thoroughly.

1.6.    Collaboration: Seek solutions in the public interest through communication & cooperation        

1.7.    Rationality: Make decisions based on facts and reason

1.8.    Wisdom: Choose carefully and effectively, considering the alternatives and consequences, in both short and long term, as fully as possible.           

 

2.       Applications of Justice

2.1.    Human Rights

2.1.1. Life

2.1.2. Fair & Decent Housing

2.1.3. Freedom from Torture

2.1.4. Freedom from Slavery

2.1.5. Freedom of Thought and Conscience

2.1.6. ..

2.2.    Civil Rights, Civil Liberties, and Civic Justice

2.2.1. Equal Rights / Equality Under the Law

2.2.2. Freedom of Religion, including separation of Church & State

2.2.3. Freedom of Speech & Freedom of Press

2.2.4. Right to Bear Arms

2.2.5. Freedom to Assemble Peacefully and Freedom of Association

2.2.6. Right to Contract

2.2.7. Protection from Unreasonable Searches and Seizures

2.2.8. Due Process, Habeas Corpus, Right to Trial & Right to Counsel

2.2.9. Right to Not Testify Against Oneself

2.2.10.    Prohibition on Cruel & Unusual Punishments

2.2.11.    Right to Privacy

2.2.12.    ….

2.3.    Electoral & Political Justice

2.3.1. Democracy: Government that serves the will of the people.

2.3.2. Policy that Respects Human & Civil Rights

2.3.3. Government that Abides by the Law: Restore Checks & Balances

2.3.4. Protect & Reward Whistleblowers

2.3.5. Cease Wars of Aggression

2.3.6. Dramatically Reduce U.S. Military Spending

2.3.7. Abolition of Corporate Personhood

2.3.8. Decentralize Political Power: Reduce Federal power and strengthen local government

2.3.9. ….

2.4.    Criminal Justice

2.4.1. Fair Laws

2.4.2. Legalize Marijuana

2.4.3. Treat substance abuse as a public health rather than criminal concern

2.4.4. ….

2.5.    Economic Justice

2.5.1. Protect & Enhances the Social Safety Net / End Poverty / Living Wage        

2.5.2. Opportunities for Employment / Job Creation Programs

2.5.3. Keep Jobs in the U.S.

2.5.4. Free education or Job Training (for all who demonstrate satisfactory competence)                              

2.5.5. Enforce Employee Safeguards in Trade Agreements           

2.5.6. Progressive Income Tax  (or Flat Wealth Tax)          

2.5.7. Interest, Dividends & Inheritance taxed as Regular Income              

2.5.8. End Subsidies to Oil and Gas Companies   

2.5.9. Oppose Privatization of Public Assets         

2.5.10.    A Fair, Transparent Financial Sector        

2.5.11.    Curb Reckless Market Speculation          

2.5.12.    Prosecute Economic Crimes of those who caused the Economic Meltdown

2.5.13.    Decentralized Economic Power: Deter concentration of economic power; break oligopolies; promote small businesses and cooperatives;        

2.5.14.    Community Economics: Empower communities to regulate businesses; subordinate corporate interests (e.g. profit, externalization of costs, etc) to the interests of workers, consumers, and the community generally.

2.5.15.    …

2.6.    Social Justice

2.6.1. End discrimination based on race or ethnicity, gender, and sexual orientation.

2.6.2. Affordable Universal Health Care

2.6.3. Compassionate and Rational Immigration Policy

2.6.4. ….

2.7.    Environmental Justice

2.7.1. Stop or Reverse Human Aspects of Global Warming

2.7.2. Transition from Non-Renewable to Renewable Energy Sources

2.7.3. Adopt Environmental Sustainable Practices as broadly as possible

2.7.4. Leave Future Generations an Environment at Least as Good as We Received

2.7.5. Empower Communities to Create & Enforce Environmental Protections

2.7.6. Create & Enforce Environmental Safeguards in Trade Agreements

2.7.7. Create & Implement Green Jobs & Infrastructure Policy

2.7.8. ….

 
I suggest that you consider adopting something like this extended list of JP values (and subvalues) with a distinction between values that are components of what Justice means and those that represent applications of justice to particular fields.  And again this is just a draft proposal. No doubt you will be well-advised to consider it closely and revise it substantially. My point isn’t so much about the specific goals as it is about the organizational outline that the goals should take, IMO, and how that will work well to segue into and organize the platform of party goals.  If you organize the Justice Party values in this way,  you will have created a trunk and branches which can structure/organize the process of developing a platform. The platform committee can then present the outline to JP members/activists, either online and/or via email, as a framework for soliciting party goals for the platform, and asking solicitors to attach each goal/plank they submit to one or more particular values from the outline. It could even be a field, fed by a drop down menu for an online form to submit planks/goals. This would both help the Platform Committee organize and evaluate the submissions AND go a long way toward ensuring that there the party values, platform goals, and ultimately policies, hang together as an organic, coherent whole.  
 
Again submitted for your consideration,
 
Blyden Potts
Pennsylvania