“The legitimate object of government is to do for a community of people whatever they need to have done, but cannot do at all, or cannot so well do, for themselves in their separate and individual capacities.”   - Abraham Lincoln


The Justice Party

The Justice Party is a party of diverse people working together that believe our nation’s leaders have substantially diverged from many foundational policies and positions upon which our great nation was founded.  Among other critical problems, we believe that the corrupting influence of money in the political process has changed our government from one that is intended to benefit society at large (of the people, by the people, and for the people) to one that benefits only a small minority of people at the expense of the vast majority.  The consequences of that change are so serious that they not only affect the civil liberties, living conditions, and overall quality of life of most of our country’s population but, even more importantly, they affect the very sustainability of our democracy.  The Justice Party was formed to bring the people of our country together to take back our government so that it can and will forever be truly of the people, by the people, and for the people.


The Vision of the Justice Party is:

A peaceful nation and world where social, economic, and environmental justice prevail:

Social Justice:	Every person's civil and human rights are protected; everyone has the opportunity to obtain an excellent education from early childhood through college or trade school; affordable and high-quality healthcare is available for everyone; government is not controlled by wealthy corporations and individuals, but is truly of the people, by the people, and for the people.

Economic Justice: All people are provided with opportunities for prosperity; poverty is eliminated; the “middle class” is thriving; and our economy is appropriately regulated so that all members of society are treated fairly.

Environmental Justice: The earth's inhabitants are safe from catastrophic, human-caused climate disruption; nature is protected and preserved through sustainable practices; and our air, water, and food supplies are clean and healthy.


The Mission of the Justice Party is to “Raise awareness, inspire, organize, and mobilize to include and engage people of broad diversity in collaborative movement-building and achieving electoral success in order to realize our Vision of a peaceful nation and world where social, economic, and environmental justice prevail.


Among many other foundational attributes, the Justice Party will strive to bring about a peaceful nation (and world) that respects the inherent dignity of all people, is in harmony with nature, provides equal opportunity to all its citizens, and both obeys and enforces domestic and international law without regard to position.  The Justice Party believes that we must eliminate the systemic corruption caused by the undue influence of corporations and wealthy individuals in both dominant parties that has led to a broad spectrum of serious ills in our society, including expansive poverty and environmental destruction.  As is clearly articulated in our Vision, the Justice Party is committed to the common goods of social, economic, and environmental justice.


The purpose of this document (the “Platform”) is to define in more detail many of the issues and positions on those issues on which the Justice Party will currently focus as we execute our Mission in pursuit of our Vision.

