The Justice Party's Vision, Mission, and Values statement can be found at www.justicepartyusa.org/vision_mission_values

It is the intention of the Justice Party Platform Committee that the Platform of the Justice Party:

(A) Be an open source document to which any person can submit suggested additions and changes. 

Thank you for taking the time to suggest one or more planks for the Justice Party platform. 


(B) Extend organically from, and form an integral whole with, the vision and values of the Justice Party; and
(C) Be organized according to a "tree" or "cascade" of values and issue groups. 

To facilitate this, we are asking each person who submits a proposed platform plank to locate that plank under a particular type of justice. 

The types of justice by which the platform will be organized are derived from the political values that are implicit in the Vision statement, e.g. "Social Justice", "Economic Justice" and "Environmental Justice". 

"Social Justice" is a residual category. All justice is ultimately social: the principles of justice -- fairness and moral righteousness -- are qualities of social relations. So strictly speaking "Social Justice" is a redundant term. However, insofar as justice may be categorized into various types, e.g. criminal, economic, environmental, etc, with each type based on the part of social life to which the type applies, there is generally a residual category of justice issues that do not fit any of the other types, which are lumped together as "Social Justice". 

For the benefit of organizing the Justice Party platform, we can unpack the residual category of "Social Justice" somewhat, transforming and extending the types of justice to include:

(1) Human Rights
(2) Civil Rights & Civil Justice
(3) Electoral & Political Justice
(4) Criminal Justice
(5) Economic Justice
(6) Environmental Justice
(7) Other Social Justice         

Presently these seven (7) categories form the primary divisions of Justice for organizing the Justice Party platform. Several of them are divided into subcategories. We invite you to suggest additional categories or subcategories, if you think doing so will improve the structure of the platform.

When you propose a new plank or change in the platform you will do so either by submitting that plank (via GitHub) in the folder of the type of justice that it represents or, if you submit the plank via email or an internet form, you will indicate which category and subcategory (if any) you think apply to your submitted plank. Planks that are not consistent with Justice Party values should not be submitted. 


(D) Consist of planks each of which is supported by the vast majority of people affiliated with the Justice Party;

Each submitted plank will ultimately have to receive the approval of a supermajority of Justice Party voters, so please only submit planks that you believe have a reasonable chance of being supported by a supermajority of Justice Party members.


(E) Consist of planks that are short, action-oriented goals where progress toward the goal is measurable; 

To be accepted your proposed plank MUST start with an action verb, and may not be more than 140 characters in length. Try to write it as concisely as possible. Avoid combining two or more separate issues, even if the issues are closely related in your mind. Write a separate plank statement for each issue. Consider your choice of verb carefully, with consideration of whether the goal constructed is achievable and measurable. For example, do not use the verb "End..." unless the thing that follows can truly be ended. If it cannot, use "Reduce", "Curb", "Minimize", or some similar verb. 



What happens after a plank is submitted? Other people may comment on or suggest further revisions to your suggestion using GitHub. All planks are considered periodically (about once per month or so) by the Justice Party Platform Committee. Changes that the Platform Committee finds beneficial will be adopted into the proposed platform. The proposed platform is presented to Justice Party voters at an annual convention, which votes on and formally adopts the party platform.


Again, thank you for taking the time to suggest one or more planks for the Justice Party platform.  